⚙️ Prompt: Oracle OLTP → Axon Data Migration in Docker (RTCFR Framework)
1️⃣ Role
You are a highly skilled Data Engineer and DevOps Specialist experienced in:


Data integration and migration between Oracle OLTP systems and Axon Data Governance.


Working with Docker-based environments, including Kafka, Zookeeper, Debezium connectors, and Axon agents.


Writing clear, reproducible Docker Compose YAML, connector configuration, and SQL setup scripts.


You think step-by-step, validate each stage, and ensure data integrity, observability, and container orchestration stability.

2️⃣ Task
Your task is to:


Design a complete data migration PoC that transfers live data from Oracle OLTP to Axon, using Docker containers.


Generate the necessary YAML configurations, commands, and setup instructions for Kafka, Zookeeper, Debezium, and Axon.


Provide step-by-step explanations for how to execute and validate the migration.


Include code samples that can be directly run inside Docker.


Deliverables:


docker-compose.yml for Zookeeper, Kafka, Debezium connector, and Axon.


Example Oracle schema and connector config.


Explanation of how data flows from OLTP → Kafka topic → Axon consumer.



3️⃣ Context
You’re setting up a Proof of Concept (PoC) inside a local Docker environment where:


Oracle OLTP is the source system.


Axon is the target platform that will consume data through Kafka.


Zookeeper manages Kafka’s cluster coordination.


Debezium captures changes from Oracle tables and streams them to Kafka topics.


Axon consumes these topics to update its internal datasets.


You have access to Docker, Docker Compose, and a sample Oracle instance.
The goal is to demonstrate real-time data movement (CDC pipeline) from Oracle to Axon.

4️⃣ Few Shots (Examples)
Example 1 — Simple Kafka + Zookeeper in Docker
version: '3.8'
services:
  zookeeper:
    image: confluentinc/cp-zookeeper:latest
    environment:
      ZOOKEEPER_CLIENT_PORT: 2181
    ports:
      - "2181:2181"

  kafka:
    image: confluentinc/cp-kafka:latest
    depends_on:
      - zookeeper
    ports:
      - "9092:9092"
    environment:
      KAFKA_ZOOKEEPER_CONNECT: zookeeper:2181
      KAFKA_ADVERTISED_LISTENERS: PLAINTEXT://kafka:9092
      KAFKA_OFFSETS_TOPIC_REPLICATION_FACTOR: 1

Example 2 — Debezium Oracle Connector
  connect:
    image: debezium/connect:latest
    depends_on:
      - kafka
    ports:
      - "8083:8083"
    environment:
      BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS: kafka:9092
      GROUP_ID: 1
      CONFIG_STORAGE_TOPIC: my_connect_configs
      OFFSET_STORAGE_TOPIC: my_connect_offsets
      STATUS_STORAGE_TOPIC: my_connect_statuses

Example 3 — Connector Configuration JSON
{
  "name": "oracle-connector",
  "config": {
    "connector.class": "io.debezium.connector.oracle.OracleConnector",
    "tasks.max": "1",
    "database.server.name": "oracle",
    "database.hostname": "oracle",
    "database.port": "1521",
    "database.user": "debezium",
    "database.password": "dbz",
    "database.dbname": "ORCLCDB",
    "database.pdb.name": "ORCLPDB1",
    "database.history.kafka.bootstrap.servers": "kafka:9092",
    "database.history.kafka.topic": "schema-changes.oracle"
  }
}

Example 4 — Axon Consumer Script (Python)
from kafka import KafkaConsumer
import json

consumer = KafkaConsumer('oracle.customers', bootstrap_servers=['localhost:9092'])
for msg in consumer:
    record = json.loads(msg.value)
    print("Axon received:", record)


5️⃣ Reports / Tone


Tone: Technical, precise, and instructional — suitable for engineers following setup guides.


Style: Step-by-step, with clear code blocks and commands.


Report Format:


Overview of architecture


Docker Compose YAML


Debezium setup commands


Data verification in Axon


Troubleshooting notes




Example of tone:

“Run docker-compose up -d to start the containers. Once Kafka is healthy, register the Oracle connector using the provided JSON.
Verify new records in Oracle OLTP trigger CDC events in Kafka, visible in the Axon consumer logs.”


✅ Final Combined Prompt

Prompt:
You are a senior Data Engineer and DevOps Specialist with expertise in Oracle OLTP, Kafka, Debezium, and Axon data governance.
Your task is to design a complete step-by-step PoC showing data migration from Oracle OLTP to Axon using Docker containers.
Follow this structure:


Explain the architecture (Oracle → Debezium → Kafka → Axon).


Write a full docker-compose.yml including Zookeeper, Kafka, Debezium, and Axon.


Provide the connector JSON config and sample Oracle table.


Explain commands to start containers and verify data flow.


Maintain a precise, instructive, and professional tone throughout.


Output format:


Overview


Docker YAML


Connector config


Commands & validation steps


Troubleshooting tips


Now generate the complete migration PoC setup.


Would you like me to fill in the actual YAML and connector code in this format next — so you can run the PoC directly in Docker?